## Framework Version 1
Since each module's main class extends **AbstractExternalModule**, the following built-in methods are available.  They can be called by using **$this** (e.g., `$this->getModuleName()`).

#### Methods
Method  | Description
------- | -----------
addAutoNumberedRecord([$pid]) | Creates the next auto numbered record and returns the record id.  If the optional PID parameter is not specified, the current PID will be automatically detected.
createDAG($name) | Creates a DAG with the specified name, and returns it's ID.
delayModuleExecution() | Pushes the execution of the module to the end of the queue; helpful to wait for data to be processed by other modules; execution of the module will be restarted from the beginning.  A boolean is returned that is true if hook was successfully delayed, or false if this is the module's last chance to perform any required actions.
deleteDAG($dagId) | Given a DAG ID, deletes the DAG and all Users and Records assigned to it.
**DEPRECATED** disableUserBasedSettingPermissions() | Calling this method was previously required to allow set/remove settings calls inside module code for users without design rights.  This should no longer be the case, and calls to this method should be removed.  If anyone encounters any use cases where this method is still required, please report them ASAP as that behavior may change in a future release.
exitAfterHook() | Calling this method inside of a hook will schedule PHP's exit() function to be called after ALL modules finish executing for the current hook.  Do NOT call die() or exit() manually afterward (the framework will call it for you).
getChoiceLabel($params) | Given an associative array, get the label associated with the specified choice value for a particular field. See the following example:<br> $params = array('field_name'=>'my_field', 'value'=>3, 'project_id'=>1, 'record_id'=>3, 'event_id'=>18, 'survey_form'=>'my_form', 'instance'=>2);
getChoiceLabels($fieldName[, $pid]) | Returns an array mapping all choice values to labels for the specified field.
getConfig() | get the config for the current External Module; consists of config.json and filled-in values
getFieldLabel($fieldName) | Returns the label for the specified field name.
getModuleDirectoryName() | get the directory name of the current external module
getModuleName() | get the name of the current external module
getModulePath() | Get the path of the current module directory (e.g., /var/html/redcap/modules/votecap_v1.1/)
getProjectId() | A convenience method for returning the current project id. 
getProjectSetting($key&nbsp;[,&nbsp;$pid]) | Returns the value stored for the specified key for the current project if it exists.  If no value is set, null is returned.  In most cases the project id can be detected automatically, but it can optionally be specified as a parameter instead.
getProjectSettings([$pid]) | Gets all project settings as an array.  Useful for cases when you may be creating a custom config page for the external module in a project.
getPublicSurveyUrl() | Returns the public survey url for the current project.
getQueryLogsSql($sql) | Returns the raw SQL that would run if the supplied parameter was passed into **queryLogs()**. 
getRecordId() | Returns the current record id if called from within a hook that includes the record id.
getSettingConfig($key) | Returns the configuration for the specified setting.
getSettingKeyPrefix() | This method can be overridden to prefix all setting keys.  This allows for multiple versions of settings depending on contexts defined by the module.
getSubSettings($key&nbsp;[,&nbsp;$pid]) | Returns the sub-settings under the specified key in a user friendly array format.  In most cases the project id can be detected automatically, but it can optionally be specified as a parameter instead.
getSystemSetting($key) | Get the value stored systemwide for the specified key.
getUrl($path [, $noAuth=false [, $useApiEndpoint=false]]) | Get the url to a resource (php page, js/css file, image etc.) at the specified path relative to the module directory. A `$module` variable representing an instance of your module class will automatically be available in PHP files.  If the $noAuth parameter is set to true, then "&NOAUTH" will be appended to the URL, which disables REDCap's authentication for that PHP page (assuming the link's URL in config.json contains "?NOAUTH"). Also, if you wish to obtain an alternative form of the URL that does not contain the REDCap version directory (e.g., https://example.com/redcap/redcap_vX.X.X/ExternalModules/?prefix=your_module&page=index&pid=33), then set $useApiEndpoint=true, which will return a version-less URL using the API end-point (e.g., https://example.com/redcap/api/?prefix=your_module&page=index&pid=33). Both links will work identically.
getUserSetting($key) | Returns the value stored for the specified key for the current user and project.  Null is always returned on surveys and NOAUTH pages.
hasPermission($permissionName) | checks whether the current External Module has permission for $permissionName
initializeJavascriptModuleObject() | Returns a JavaScript block that initializes the JavaScript version of the module object (documented below). 
isSurveyPage() | Returns true if the current page is a survey.  This is primarily useful in the **redcap_every_page_before_render** and **redcap_save_record** hooks.
log($message[, $parameters]) | Inserts a log entry including a message and optional array of key-value pairs for later retrieval using the **queryLogs()** method, and returns the inserted **log_id**.  Some parameters/columns are stored automatically, even if the **$parameters** argument is omitted (see **queryLogs()** for more details).
query($sql) | A thin wrapper around REDCap's db_query() that includes automatic error detection and reporting. 
queryLogs($sql) | Queries log entries added via the **log()** method using SQL-like syntax with the "from" portion omitted, and returns a MySQL result resource (just like **mysql_query()**).  Queries can include standard "select", "where", "order by", and "group by" clauses.  Available columns include **log_id**, **timestamp**, **user**, **ip**, **project_id**, **record**, **message**, and any parameter name passed to the **log()** method.  All columns must be specified explicitly ("select \*" syntax is not supported).  The raw SQL being executed by this method can be retrieved by calling **getQueryLogsSql()**.  Here are some query examples:*<br><br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;select timestamp, user where message = 'some message'<br><br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;select message, ip<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;where<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;timestamp > '2017-07-07'<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and user in ('joe', 'tom')<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;or some_parameter like '%abc%'<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;order by timestamp desc*<br><br>If the `external_module_id` or `project_id` columns are not specified in the where clause, queries are limited to the current module and project (if detected) by default.  For complex queries, the log table can be manually queried (this method does not have to be used). 
removeLogs($sql) | Removes log entries matching the current module, current project (if detected), and the specified sql "where" clause.
removeProjectSetting($key&nbsp;[,&nbsp;$pid]) | Remove the value stored for this project and the specified key.  In most cases the project id can be detected automatically, but it can optionaly be specified as a parameter instead. 
removeSystemSetting($key) | Removes the value stored systemwide for the specified key.
removeUserSetting($key) | Removes the value stored for the specified key for the current user and project.  This method does nothing on surveys and NOAUTH pages.
renameDAG($dagId, $name) | Renames the DAG with the given ID to the specified name.
saveFile($filePath[, $pid]) | Saves a file and returns the new edoc id.
setDAG($record, $dagId) | Sets the DAG for the given record ID to given DAG ID.
setData($record, $fieldName, $values) | Sets the data for the given record and field name to the specified value or array of values.
setProjectSetting($key,&nbsp;$value&nbsp;[,&nbsp;$pid]) | Sets the setting specified by the key to the specified value for this project.  In most cases the project id can be detected automatically, but it can optionally be specified as a parameter instead.
setProjectSettings($settings[, $pid]) | Saves all project settings (to be used with getProjectSettings).  Useful for cases when you may create a custom config page or need to overwrite all project settings for an external module.
setSystemSetting($key,&nbsp;$value) | Set the setting specified by the key to the specified value systemwide (shared by all projects).
setUserSetting($key, $value) |  Sets the setting specified by the key to the given value for the current user and project.  This method does nothing on surveys and NOAUTH pages.  
validateSettings($settings) | Override this method in order to validate settings at save time.  If a non-empty error message string is returned, it will be displayed to the user, and settings will NOT be saved. 

### JavaScript Module Object
A JavaScript version of the module object can be created by calling the PHP module object's `initializeJavascriptModuleObject()` method at any point in any hook.  It will generate a JavaScript object matching the following pattern:
 
```ExternalModules.PHPNamespace.PHPClassName```

For example, the `log()` JavaScript method can be called on the supplied configuration example modules as follows:

```
<script>
	ExternalModules.Vanderbilt.ConfigurationExampleExternalModule.log('Hello from JavaScript!')
</script>

```

Method  | Description
------- | -----------
log() | See the description for the PHP version of this method (above).
