## Framework Version 2

#### Breaking Changes
* A `framework` member variable is now automatically added to the module class that will house all future methods.  If any modules previously defined their own `framework` member variable, they will need to be refactored to use a different variable name instead.
* Calling `$module->framework->getSubSettings()` will return slightly different output than calling `$module->getSubSettings()`.  The framework provided version handles complex nested settings much more accurately, but has some subtle differences preventing full backward compatibility with the method directly on the module class.

#### Framework Methods
Accessing [Version 1](v1.md) methods the way we always have is still considered good practice (at least for now).  The following new methods can be accessed via the `framework` object (e.g. `$module->framework->getProjectsWithModuleEnabled()` or `$module->framework->records->lock()`).

Method  | Description
------- | -----------
getJavascriptModuleObjectName() | Returns the name of the javascript object for this module.
getProject([$project_id]) | Returns a `Project` object for the given project ID, or the current project if no ID is specified.  This `Project` object is documented below.
getProjectsWithModuleEnabled() | Returns an array of project ids for which the  current module is enabled (especially useful in cron jobs).
getSQLInClause($columnName, $values) | Generates SQL to determine if the given column is in the given array of values.  Specifying `null` values is also supported.
getSubSettings($key&nbsp;[,&nbsp;$pid]) | Returns the sub-settings under the specified key in a user friendly array format.  In most cases the project id can be detected automatically, but it can optionally be specified as a parameter instead. 
isRoute($routeName) | Returns true if the 'route' GET/URL parameter matches the specified string.
records->lock($recordIds)** | Locks all forms/instances for the given record ids.
requireInteger($mixed) | Throws an exception if the supplied value is not an integer or a string representation of an integer.  Returns the integer equivalent of the given value regardless.
getUser([$username]) | Returns a `User` object for the given username, or the current user if no username is specified.  This `User` object is documented below.

#### Project Methods
The following methods are avaiable on the `Project` object returned by `$module->framework->getProject()`.

Method  | Description
------- | -----------
getUsers() | Returns an array of `User` objects for each user with rights on the project.

#### User Methods
The following methods are avaiable on the `User` object returned by `$module->framework->getUser()`.

Method  | Description
------- | -----------
getEmail() | Returns the user's primary email address.
getRights([$project_ids]) | Returns this user's rights on the specified project id(s).  If no project ids are specified, rights for the current project are returned.
hasDesignRights() | Returns true if the user has design rights on the current project.
isSuperUser() | Returns true if the user is a super user.

#### JavaScript Module Object
A JavaScript version of any module object can be initialized by including the javascript code block returned by the PHP module object's `initializeJavascriptModuleObject()` method at any point in any hook.  The name of the javascript module object is returned by the PHP module object's `getJavascriptModuleObjectName()` method.  Here is a basic example of how to initialize and use the javascript module object from any PHP hook:

```
<?=$this->initializeJavascriptModuleObject()?>

<script>
	$(function(){
		var module = <?=$module->getJavascriptModuleObjectName()?>;
		module.log('Hello from JavaScript!');
	})
</script>
```

Javascript module object methods are documented below:

Method  | Description
------- | -----------
getUrlParameter(name) | Returns the value for the specified GET/URL parameter.
getUrlParameters() | Returns an object containing all GET parameters for the current URL.
isImportPage() | Returns true if the current page is a **Data Import Tool** page.
isImportReviewPage() | Returns true if the current page is the **Data Import Tool** review page.
isImportSuccessPage() | Returns true if the current page is the **Data Import Tool** success page.
isRoute(routeName) | See the description for the PHP version of this method (above). 
log() | See the description for the PHP version of this method (above).
